# The-Big-Dig
Instructions for ComputerCraft Mining Turtles (programmable machines added to Minecraft by the popular ComputerCraft mod) to automatically construct a pre-designed subway tunnel.

This small, fun project was completed in the summer of 2018 as a way to test my introductory programming knowledge gained from a C programming course taken in the spring of that year.

These instructions are written in Lua, which is a lightweight scripting language designed for embedded use in larger applications. Lua is similar syntactically to JavaScript.

To automatically create the desired subway tunnels (which are 3 blocks wide and 3 blocks tall, and of a variable length), three separate Mining Turtles are used, each with slightly different instructions. Each turtle handles a 1x3 column of tunnel blocks, so the three turtles combined construct the full 3x3 tunnel. To start, a separate tunnel boring machine excavates a large 3x3 tunnel in front of the turtles' current positions. Then, each turtle will advance one block into the newly-created space, and begin filling in the structural and aesthetic blocks needed for the tunnel (in the case of the turtle in the center of the tunnel, a ceiling light is placed at set intervals to illuminate the tunnel). The turtles keep advancing and adding strutural blocks to the tunnel until they either run out of resources, or catch up with the boring machine.

In order for the turtles to function continuously, they are able to handle a wide variety of cases that can occur in the game when digging that would otherwise impede their operation. For instance, they can detect if an entity such as a bat is obstructing their movement, and strike at the bat to get it out of the way. They can manage their internal storage, and stop automatically when they have no more space in order to avoid lost resources. Furthermore, they can manage their finite fuel resources and find additional fuel in their inventories to refuel as they go. They also feature detailed error messages informing the user of why their progress was halted (a common case is when running out of construction materials), as well as how many tunnel layers they successfully completed on their most recent run.
